Twig Templates Manual (#1176)
contao/docs: docs/manual/layout/templates/twig/twig-template-reuse.en.md

* [Extend](#extend)
* [Horizontal reuse](#horizontal-reuse)

For more complex customizations there are many more options available. You can find the description in the
developer documentation:

* [Include](https://docs.contao.org/dev/framework/templates/creating-templates/#includes)
* [Embed](https://docs.contao.org/dev/framework/templates/creating-templates/#embeds)
* [Macros](https://docs.contao.org/dev/framework/templates/creating-templates/#macros)
* [Components](https://docs.contao.org/dev/framework/templates/creating-templates/#contao-components)
* [Template features](https://docs.contao.org/dev/framework/templates/creating-templates/#template-features)

## Template hierarchy

For template reuse, you should familiarize yourself with the template hierarchy in Contao make yourself familiar with
it.

* Templates from Core
* Templates from an extension
* Templates from an application
* Global templates
* Global variant templates

Templates from the core can be modified by extension and application. For your
[global templates](../manage/#global-templates) from the `/templates` folder they are parent
templates that you can customize.   

> The parent templates (base templates) of the core, from extensions or application can be replaced by a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parent templates (base templates) of the core, from extensions or the application can be replaced by a
```

> [global-template](../manage/#global-templates) from the folder `/templates` once basically for all elements
> of a type or global [variant-templates](../manage/#global-variants-templates) can be provided for all
> made available. A variant template can either directly be a template from the core from the core, extensions or
> applications or a global template from the folder `/templates`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[global-template](../manage/#global-templates) within the `/templates` folder for all elements.
Global [variant templates](../manage/#global-variants-templates) can also be provided. A variant template adjusts a template from the core, an extension or the application - or another global template from the `/templates` folder.
```

> In addition, [theme-specific templates](../manage/#theme-specific-templates) are available, but they do not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition, [theme specific templates](../manage/#theme-specific-templates) are available, but they do not
```

belong to the template hierarchy because they are created at runtime.

The template hierarchy can be displayed from the command line with the

> [debug:contao-twig command](https://docs.contao.org/dev/framework/templates/debugging/#debug-contao-twig-command).   

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[`debug:contao-twig` command](https://docs.contao.org/dev/framework/templates/debugging/#debug-contao-twig-command).   
```

> Also note the [corresponding section in the manual](/en/cli) when using the command line command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Also note the [corresponding section in the manual](/en/cli) when using the command.
```

## Extend

The `{% extend %}` tag is available for extending a template.   
When extending a template, it is not completely overwritten, but only individual subareas (blocks) of a parent template
(base template) are adapted.  
To do this, the base template must be specified with `{% extends "@Contao/('path-of-template')/('name-of-template') %}`.

Contao supports you in extending templates and [customizing blocks](#customize-blocks) and
[customize HTML attributes](#customize-html-attributes).  
If you select one of the new Twig templates for customization, the new template will be prepared for inheritance in
such a way that the base template is already specified. In the comments you will find the blocks and HTML attributes
that can be customized.

### Customize blocks

Customizable areas in Twig templates are located in blocks. Blocks start with a `{% block('name-of-block') %}` tag and
end with a `{% endblock %}` tag.

All adjustments must be made within the available blocks.

With `{{ parent() }}` the original content of the block can be output.

All non-customized blocks are automatically taken from the parent template.

{{% example "Extension for the text element" %}}

> We create a new template for the content element text via the back end and insert an additional text into the block
> `{% block text %}` block with an additional text.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We create a new template for the content element text via the back end and insert an additional text into the `{% block text %}` block with an additional text.
```

```twig
{# /templates/content_element/text.html.twig #}
{% extends "@Contao/content_element/text.html.twig" %}
{% block text %}
    <p>Introductory text for all text elements</p>
    {{ parent() }}
{% endblock %}
```

In all text elements, before the text we entered in Tiny-MCE, the text `Introductory text for all text elements`.

We now create two additional variants for the text element. The variants get in the block `{% block text %}` each with
its own closing text.

```twig
{# /templates/content_element/text/tip.html.twig #}
{% extends "@Contao/content_element/text.html.twig" %}
{% block text %}
    {{ parent() }}
    <p>Here is an additional closing text for the "Tip" variant</p>
{% endblock %}
```

```twig
{# /templates/content_element/text/notice.html.twig #}
{% extends "@Contao/content_element/text.html.twig" %}
{% block text %}
    {{ parent() }}
    <p>Here is an additional closing text for the "Notice" variant</p>
{% endblock %}
```

> If we now select the template `content_element/text/tip`, then the parent template is the template  
> `/templates/content_element/text.html.twig`.  
> At the beginning again the text `Introductory text for all text elements` is output and additionally at the end the
> text `Here is an additional closing text for the variant "Tip"`. Between these two texts is the complete
> text that we entered in TinyMCE.  
> When using the template `content_element/text/notice`, the closing text `Here is an additional closing text for the
> text for the "Notice" variant`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If we now select the template `content_element/text/tip`, then the parent template is the template  
`/templates/content_element/text.html.twig`.  
At the beginning the text `Introductory text for all text elements` is output and additionally at the end the
text `Here is an additional closing text for the variant "Tip"`. Between these the text that we entered in TinyMCE is output.  
When using the template `content_element/text/notice`, the text `Here is an additional closing text for the
text for the "Notice" variant` is output at the end.
```

{{% /example %}}

### Customize HTML attributes

> For most Contao components, you can assign an additional CSS ID or CSS class in the back end.  
> These are set for the corresponding components. Sometimes this is not desired and you want to assign the class
> only for a specific HTML tag.  
> For this purpose Contao provides you with the `{{ attrs() }}` function. With this function, it is possible to set
> as a variable in the parent template.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For most Contao components, you can assign an additional CSS ID or CSS class in the back end.  
These are set for the corresponding components. Sometimes this is not desired and you want to assign the class
only for a specific HTML tag.  
For this purpose Contao provides you with the `{{ attrs() }}` function. This function allows you to modify any HTML attributes that have been defined in the parent template.
```
